docs/api-reference/next.config.js/redirects.md, before:

---
description: Add redirects to your Next.js app.
---

# Redirects

> This feature was introduced in [Next.js 9.5](https://nextjs.org/blog/next-9-5) and up. If you’re using older versions of Next.js, please upgrade before trying it out.

<details open>
  <summary><b>Examples</b></summary>
  <ul>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/examples/redirects">Redirects</a></li>
  </ul>
</details>

Redirects allow you to redirect an incoming request path to a different destination path.

Redirects are only available on the Node.js environment and do not affect client-side routing.

To use Redirects you can use the `redirects` key in `next.config.js`:

```js
module.exports = {
  async redirects() {
    return [
      {
        source: '/about',
        destination: '/',
        permanent: true,
      },
    ]
  },
}
```

`redirects` is an async function that expects an array to be returned holding objects with `source`, `destination`, and `permanent` properties:

- `source` is the incoming request path pattern.
- `destination` is the path you want to route to.
- `permanent` if the redirect is permanent or not.
- `basePath`: `false` or `undefined` - if false the basePath won't be included when matching, can be used for external rewrites only.
- `locale`: `false` or `undefined` - whether the locale should not be included when matching.
- `has` is an array of [has objects](#header-cookie-and-query-matching) with the `type`, `key` and `value` properties.

Redirects are checked before the filesystem which includes pages and `/public` files.

## Path Matching

Path matches are allowed, for example `/old-blog/:slug` will match `/old-blog/hello-world` (no nested paths):

```js
module.exports = {
  async redirects() {
    return [
      {
        source: '/old-blog/:slug',
        destination: '/news/:slug', // Matched parameters can be used in the destination
        permanent: true,
      },
    ]
  },
}
```

### Wildcard Path Matching

To match a wildcard path you can use `*` after a parameter, for example `/blog/:slug*` will match `/blog/a/b/c/d/hello-world`:

```js
module.exports = {
  async redirects() {
    return [
      {
        source: '/blog/:slug*',
        destination: '/news/:slug*', // Matched parameters can be used in the destination
        permanent: true,
      },
    ]
  },
}
```

### Regex Path Matching

To match a regex path you can wrap the regex in parentheses after a parameter, for example `/post/:slug(\\d{1,})` will match `/post/123` but not `/post/abc`:

```js
module.exports = {
  async redirects() {
    return [
      {
        source: '/post/:slug(\\d{1,})',
        destination: '/news/:slug', // Matched parameters can be used in the destination
        permanent: false,
      },
    ]
  },
}
```

The following characters `(`, `)`, `{`, `}`, `:`, `*`, `+`, `?` are used for regex path matching, so when used in the `source` as non-special values they must be escaped by adding `\\` before them:

```js
module.exports = {
  async redirects() {
    return [
      {
        // this will match `/english(default)/something` being requested
        source: '/english\\(default\\)/:slug',
        destination: '/en-us/:slug',
        permanent: false,
      },
    ]
  },
}
```

## Header, Cookie, and Query Matching

Note: this feature is still experimental and not covered by semver and is to be used at your own risk until it is made stable.

To only match a redirect when header, cookie, or query values also match the `has` field can be used. Both the `source` and all `has` items must match for the redirect to be applied.

`has` items have the following fields:

- `type`: `String` - must be either `header`, `cookie`, `host`, or `query`.
- `key`: `String` - the key from the selected type to match against.
- `value`: `String` or `undefined` - the value to check for, if undefined any value will match. A regex like string can be used to capture a specific part of the value, e.g. if the value `first-(?<paramName>.*)` is used for `first-second` then `second` will be usable in the destination with `:paramName`.

```js
module.exports = {
  async redirects() {
    return [
      // if the header `x-redirect-me` is present,
      // this redirect will be applied
      {
        source: '/:path*',
        has: [
          {
            type: 'header',
            key: 'x-redirect-me',
          },
        ],
        permanent: false,
        destination: '/another-page',
      },
      // if the source, query, and cookie are matched,
      // this redirect will be applied
      {
        source: '/specific/:path*',
        has: [
          {
            type: 'query',
            key: 'page',
            // the page value will not be available in the
            // destination since value is provided and doesn't
            // use a named capture group e.g. (?<page>home)
            value: 'home',
          },
          {
            type: 'cookie',
            key: 'authorized',
            value: 'true',
          },
        ],
        permanent: false,
        destination: '/:path*/:page',
      },
      // if the header `x-authorized` is present and
      // contains a matching value, this redirect will be applied
      {
        source: '/:path*',
        has: [
          {
            type: 'header',
            key: 'x-authorized',
            value: '(?<authorized>yes|true)',
          },
        ],
        permanent: false,
        destination: '/home?authorized=:authorized',
      },
      // if the host is `example.com`,
      // this redirect will be applied
      {
        source: '/:path*',
        has: [
          {
            type: 'host',
            value: 'example.com',
          },
        ],
        destination: '/another-page',
      },
    ]
  },
}
```

### Redirects with basePath support

When leveraging [`basePath` support](/docs/api-reference/next.config.js/basepath.md) with redirects each `source` and `destination` is automatically prefixed with the `basePath` unless you add `basePath: false` to the redirect:

```js
module.exports = {
  basePath: '/docs',

  async redirects() {
    return [
      {
        source: '/with-basePath', // automatically becomes /docs/with-basePath
        destination: '/another', // automatically becomes /docs/another
        permanent: false,
      },
      {
        // does not add /docs since basePath: false is set
        source: '/without-basePath',
        destination: '/another',
        basePath: false,
        permanent: false,
      },
    ]
  },
}
```

### Redirects with i18n support

When leveraging [`i18n` support](/docs/advanced-features/i18n-routing.md) with redirects each `source` and `destination` is automatically prefixed to handle the configured `locales` unless you add `locale: false` to the redirect. If `locale: false` is used you must prefix the `source` and `destination` with a locale for it to be matched correctly.

```js
module.exports = {
  i18n: {
    locales: ['en', 'fr', 'de'],
    defaultLocale: 'en',
  },

  async redirects() {
    return [
      {
        source: '/with-locale', // automatically handles all locales
        destination: '/another', // automatically passes the locale on
        permanent: false,
      },
      {
        // does not handle locales automatically since locale: false is set
        source: '/nl/with-locale-manual',
        destination: '/nl/another',
        locale: false,
        permanent: false,
      },
      {
        // this matches '/' since `en` is the defaultLocale
        source: '/en',
        destination: '/en/another',
        locale: false,
        permanent: false,
      },
      {
        // this gets converted to /(en|fr|de)/(.*) so will not match the top-level
        // `/` or `/fr` routes like /:path* would
        source: '/(.*)',
        destination: '/another',
        permanent: false,
      },
    ]
  },
}
```

In some rare cases, you might need to assign a custom status code for older HTTP Clients to properly redirect. In these cases, you can use the `statusCode` property instead of the `permanent` property, but not both. Note: to ensure IE11 compatibility a `Refresh` header is automatically added for the 308 status code.

## Other Redirects

- Inside [API Routes](/docs/api-routes/response-helpers.md), you can use `res.redirect()`.
- Inside [`getStaticProps`](/docs/basic-features/data-fetching.md#getstaticprops-static-generation) and [`getServerSideProps`](/docs/basic-features/data-fetching.md#getserversideprops-server-side-rendering), you can redirect specific pages at request-time.

Commit message:

docs: fix misleading documentation on redirects
The guides for `next.config.js` never specify that the `has: { }` syntax
is only available for v10.1, and not for v10.0. Add a note that
indicates these features are only available in the latest version.

docs/api-reference/next.config.js/redirects.md, after:

---
description: Add redirects to your Next.js app.
---

# Redirects

> This feature was introduced in [Next.js 9.5](https://nextjs.org/blog/next-9-5) and up. If you’re using older versions of Next.js, please upgrade before trying it out.

<details open>
  <summary><b>Examples</b></summary>
  <ul>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/examples/redirects">Redirects</a></li>
  </ul>
</details>

Redirects allow you to redirect an incoming request path to a different destination path.

Redirects are only available on the Node.js environment and do not affect client-side routing.

To use Redirects you can use the `redirects` key in `next.config.js`:

```js
module.exports = {
  async redirects() {
    return [
      {
        source: '/about',
        destination: '/',
        permanent: true,
      },
    ]
  },
}
```

`redirects` is an async function that expects an array to be returned holding objects with `source`, `destination`, and `permanent` properties:

- `source` is the incoming request path pattern.
- `destination` is the path you want to route to.
- `permanent` if the redirect is permanent or not.
- `basePath`: `false` or `undefined` - if false the basePath won't be included when matching, can be used for external rewrites only.
- `locale`: `false` or `undefined` - whether the locale should not be included when matching.
- `has` is an array of [has objects](#header-cookie-and-query-matching) with the `type`, `key` and `value` properties.

Redirects are checked before the filesystem which includes pages and `/public` files.

## Path Matching

Path matches are allowed, for example `/old-blog/:slug` will match `/old-blog/hello-world` (no nested paths):

```js
module.exports = {
  async redirects() {
    return [
      {
        source: '/old-blog/:slug',
        destination: '/news/:slug', // Matched parameters can be used in the destination
        permanent: true,
      },
    ]
  },
}
```

### Wildcard Path Matching

To match a wildcard path you can use `*` after a parameter, for example `/blog/:slug*` will match `/blog/a/b/c/d/hello-world`:

```js
module.exports = {
  async redirects() {
    return [
      {
        source: '/blog/:slug*',
        destination: '/news/:slug*', // Matched parameters can be used in the destination
        permanent: true,
      },
    ]
  },
}
```

### Regex Path Matching

To match a regex path you can wrap the regex in parentheses after a parameter, for example `/post/:slug(\\d{1,})` will match `/post/123` but not `/post/abc`:

```js
module.exports = {
  async redirects() {
    return [
      {
        source: '/post/:slug(\\d{1,})',
        destination: '/news/:slug', // Matched parameters can be used in the destination
        permanent: false,
      },
    ]
  },
}
```

The following characters `(`, `)`, `{`, `}`, `:`, `*`, `+`, `?` are used for regex path matching, so when used in the `source` as non-special values they must be escaped by adding `\\` before them:

```js
module.exports = {
  async redirects() {
    return [
      {
        // this will match `/english(default)/something` being requested
        source: '/english\\(default\\)/:slug',
        destination: '/en-us/:slug',
        permanent: false,
      },
    ]
  },
}
```

## Header, Cookie, and Query Matching

**NOTE:** This feature is only available in Next v10.1 and above. It's still experimental, and not covered by semantic versioning. Use at your own risk until it is made stable.

To only match a redirect when header, cookie, or query values also match the `has` field can be used. Both the `source` and all `has` items must match for the redirect to be applied.

`has` items have the following fields:

- `type`: `String` - must be either `header`, `cookie`, `host`, or `query`.
- `key`: `String` - the key from the selected type to match against.
- `value`: `String` or `undefined` - the value to check for, if undefined any value will match. A regex like string can be used to capture a specific part of the value, e.g. if the value `first-(?<paramName>.*)` is used for `first-second` then `second` will be usable in the destination with `:paramName`.

```js
module.exports = {
  async redirects() {
    return [
      // if the header `x-redirect-me` is present,
      // this redirect will be applied
      {
        source: '/:path*',
        has: [
          {
            type: 'header',
            key: 'x-redirect-me',
          },
        ],
        permanent: false,
        destination: '/another-page',
      },
      // if the source, query, and cookie are matched,
      // this redirect will be applied
      {
        source: '/specific/:path*',
        has: [
          {
            type: 'query',
            key: 'page',
            // the page value will not be available in the
            // destination since value is provided and doesn't
            // use a named capture group e.g. (?<page>home)
            value: 'home',
          },
          {
            type: 'cookie',
            key: 'authorized',
            value: 'true',
          },
        ],
        permanent: false,
        destination: '/:path*/:page',
      },
      // if the header `x-authorized` is present and
      // contains a matching value, this redirect will be applied
      {
        source: '/:path*',
        has: [
          {
            type: 'header',
            key: 'x-authorized',
            value: '(?<authorized>yes|true)',
          },
        ],
        permanent: false,
        destination: '/home?authorized=:authorized',
      },
      // if the host is `example.com`,
      // this redirect will be applied
      {
        source: '/:path*',
        has: [
          {
            type: 'host',
            value: 'example.com',
          },
        ],
        destination: '/another-page',
      },
    ]
  },
}
```

### Redirects with basePath support

When leveraging [`basePath` support](/docs/api-reference/next.config.js/basepath.md) with redirects each `source` and `destination` is automatically prefixed with the `basePath` unless you add `basePath: false` to the redirect:

```js
module.exports = {
  basePath: '/docs',

  async redirects() {
    return [
      {
        source: '/with-basePath', // automatically becomes /docs/with-basePath
        destination: '/another', // automatically becomes /docs/another
        permanent: false,
      },
      {
        // does not add /docs since basePath: false is set
        source: '/without-basePath',
        destination: '/another',
        basePath: false,
        permanent: false,
      },
    ]
  },
}
```

### Redirects with i18n support

When leveraging [`i18n` support](/docs/advanced-features/i18n-routing.md) with redirects each `source` and `destination` is automatically prefixed to handle the configured `locales` unless you add `locale: false` to the redirect. If `locale: false` is used you must prefix the `source` and `destination` with a locale for it to be matched correctly.

```js
module.exports = {
  i18n: {
    locales: ['en', 'fr', 'de'],
    defaultLocale: 'en',
  },

  async redirects() {
    return [
      {
        source: '/with-locale', // automatically handles all locales
        destination: '/another', // automatically passes the locale on
        permanent: false,
      },
      {
        // does not handle locales automatically since locale: false is set
        source: '/nl/with-locale-manual',
        destination: '/nl/another',
        locale: false,
        permanent: false,
      },
      {
        // this matches '/' since `en` is the defaultLocale
        source: '/en',
        destination: '/en/another',
        locale: false,
        permanent: false,
      },
      {
        // this gets converted to /(en|fr|de)/(.*) so will not match the top-level
        // `/` or `/fr` routes like /:path* would
        source: '/(.*)',
        destination: '/another',
        permanent: false,
      },
    ]
  },
}
```

In some rare cases, you might need to assign a custom status code for older HTTP Clients to properly redirect. In these cases, you can use the `statusCode` property instead of the `permanent` property, but not both. Note: to ensure IE11 compatibility a `Refresh` header is automatically added for the 308 status code.

## Other Redirects

- Inside [API Routes](/docs/api-routes/response-helpers.md), you can use `res.redirect()`.
- Inside [`getStaticProps`](/docs/basic-features/data-fetching.md#getstaticprops-static-generation) and [`getServerSideProps`](/docs/basic-features/data-fetching.md#getserversideprops-server-side-rendering), you can redirect specific pages at request-time.
