docs/api-reference/next.config.js/rewrites.md, before:

---
description: Add rewrites to your Next.js app.
---

# Rewrites

> This feature was introduced in [Next.js 9.5](https://nextjs.org/blog/next-9-5) and up. If you’re using older versions of Next.js, please upgrade before trying it out.

<details open>
  <summary><b>Examples</b></summary>
  <ul>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/examples/rewrites">Rewrites</a></li>
  </ul>
</details>

Rewrites allow you to map an incoming request path to a different destination path.

Rewrites are only available on the Node.js environment and do not affect client-side routing.

To use rewrites you can use the `rewrites` key in `next.config.js`:

```js
module.exports = {
  async rewrites() {
    return [
      {
        source: '/about',
        destination: '/',
      },
    ]
  },
}
```

`rewrites` is an async function that expects an array to be returned holding objects with `source` and `destination` properties:

- `source`: `String` - is the incoming request path pattern.
- `destination`: `String` is the path you want to route to.
- `basePath`: `false` or `undefined` - if false the basePath won't be included when matching, can be used for external rewrites only.
- `locale`: `false` or `undefined` - whether the locale should not be included when matching.
- `has` is an array of [has objects](#header-cookie-and-query-matching) with the `type`, `key` and `value` properties.

Rewrites are applied after checking the filesystem (pages and `/public` files) and before dynamic routes by default. This behavior can be changed by instead returning an object instead of an array from the `rewrites` function since `v10.1` of Next.js:

```js
module.exports = {
  async rewrites() {
    return {
      beforeFiles: [
        // These rewrites are checked after headers/redirects
        // and before pages/public files which allows overriding
        // page files
        {
          source: '/some-page',
          destination: '/somewhere-else',
          has: [{ type: 'query', key: 'overrideMe' }],
        },
      ],
      afterFiles: [
        // These rewrites are checked after pages/public files
        // are checked but before dynamic routes
        {
          source: '/non-existent',
          destination: '/somewhere-else',
        },
      ],
      fallback: [
        // These rewrites are checked after both pages/public files
        // and dynamic routes are checked
        {
          source: '/:path*',
          destination: 'https://my-old-site.com',
        },
      ],
    }
  },
}
```

## Rewrite parameters

When using parameters in a rewrite the parameters will be passed in the query by default when none of the parameters are used in the `destination`.

```js
module.exports = {
  async rewrites() {
    return [
      {
        source: '/old-about/:path*',
        destination: '/about', // The :path parameter isn't used here so will be automatically passed in the query
      },
    ]
  },
}
```

If a parameter is used in the destination none of the parameters will be automatically passed in the query.

```js
module.exports = {
  async rewrites() {
    return [
      {
        source: '/docs/:path*',
        destination: '/:path*', // The :path parameter is used here so will not be automatically passed in the query
      },
    ]
  },
}
```

You can still pass the parameters manually in the query if one is already used in the destination by specifying the query in the `destination`.

```js
module.exports = {
  async rewrites() {
    return [
      {
        source: '/:first/:second',
        destination: '/:first?second=:second',
        // Since the :first parameter is used in the destination the :second parameter
        // will not automatically be added in the query although we can manually add it
        // as shown above
      },
    ]
  },
}
```

## Path Matching

Path matches are allowed, for example `/blog/:slug` will match `/blog/hello-world` (no nested paths):

```js
module.exports = {
  async rewrites() {
    return [
      {
        source: '/blog/:slug',
        destination: '/news/:slug', // Matched parameters can be used in the destination
      },
    ]
  },
}
```

### Wildcard Path Matching

To match a wildcard path you can use `*` after a parameter, for example `/blog/:slug*` will match `/blog/a/b/c/d/hello-world`:

```js
module.exports = {
  async rewrites() {
    return [
      {
        source: '/blog/:slug*',
        destination: '/news/:slug*', // Matched parameters can be used in the destination
      },
    ]
  },
}
```

### Regex Path Matching

To match a regex path you can wrap the regex in parenthesis after a parameter, for example `/blog/:slug(\\d{1,})` will match `/blog/123` but not `/blog/abc`:

```js
module.exports = {
  async rewrites() {
    return [
      {
        source: '/old-blog/:post(\\d{1,})',
        destination: '/blog/:post', // Matched parameters can be used in the destination
      },
    ]
  },
}
```

The following characters `(`, `)`, `{`, `}`, `:`, `*`, `+`, `?` are used for regex path matching, so when used in the `source` as non-special values they must be escaped by adding `\\` before them:

```js
module.exports = {
  async redirects() {
    return [
      {
        // this will match `/english(default)/something` being requested
        source: '/english\\(default\\)/:slug',
        destination: '/en-us/:slug',
        permanent: false,
      },
    ]
  },
}
```

## Header, Cookie, and Query Matching

Note: this feature is still experimental and not covered by semver and is to be used at your own risk until it is made stable.

To only match a rewrite when header, cookie, or query values also match the `has` field can be used. Both the `source` and all `has` items must match for the rewrite to be applied.

`has` items have the following fields:

- `type`: `String` - must be either `header`, `cookie`, `host`, or `query`.
- `key`: `String` - the key from the selected type to match against.
- `value`: `String` or `undefined` - the value to check for, if undefined any value will match. A regex like string can be used to capture a specific part of the value, e.g. if the value `first-(?<paramName>.*)` is used for `first-second` then `second` will be usable in the destination with `:paramName`.

```js
module.exports = {
  async rewrites() {
    return [
      // if the header `x-rewrite-me` is present,
      // this rewrite will be applied
      {
        source: '/:path*',
        has: [
          {
            type: 'header',
            key: 'x-rewrite-me',
          },
        ],
        destination: '/another-page',
      },
      // if the source, query, and cookie are matched,
      // this rewrite will be applied
      {
        source: '/specific/:path*',
        has: [
          {
            type: 'query',
            key: 'page',
            // the page value will not be available in the
            // destination since value is provided and doesn't
            // use a named capture group e.g. (?<page>home)
            value: 'home',
          },
          {
            type: 'cookie',
            key: 'authorized',
            value: 'true',
          },
        ],
        destination: '/:path*/home',
      },
      // if the header `x-authorized` is present and
      // contains a matching value, this rewrite will be applied
      {
        source: '/:path*',
        has: [
          {
            type: 'header',
            key: 'x-authorized',
            value: '(?<authorized>yes|true)',
          },
        ],
        destination: '/home?authorized=:authorized',
      },
      // if the host is `example.com`,
      // this rewrite will be applied
      {
        source: '/:path*',
        has: [
          {
            type: 'host',
            value: 'example.com',
          },
        ],
        destination: '/another-page',
      },
    ]
  },
}
```

## Rewriting to an external URL

<details>
  <summary><b>Examples</b></summary>
  <ul>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/examples/custom-routes-proxying">Incremental adoption of Next.js</a></li>
  </ul>
</details>

Rewrites allow you to rewrite to an external url. This is especially useful for incrementally adopting Next.js.

```js
module.exports = {
  async rewrites() {
    return [
      {
        source: '/blog/:slug',
        destination: 'https://example.com/blog/:slug', // Matched parameters can be used in the destination
      },
    ]
  },
}
```

### Incremental adoption of Next.js

You can also have Next.js fall back to proxying to an existing website after checking all Next.js routes.

This way you don't have to change the rewrites configuration when migrating more pages to Next.js

```js
module.exports = {
  async rewrites() {
    return {
      fallback: [
        {
          source: '/:path*',
          destination: `https://custom-routes-proxying-endpoint.vercel.app/:path*`,
        },
      ],
    }
  },
}
```

See additional information on incremental adoption [in the docs here](https://nextjs.org/docs/migrating/incremental-adoption).

### Rewrites with basePath support

When leveraging [`basePath` support](/docs/api-reference/next.config.js/basepath.md) with rewrites each `source` and `destination` is automatically prefixed with the `basePath` unless you add `basePath: false` to the rewrite:

```js
module.exports = {
  basePath: '/docs',

  async rewrites() {
    return [
      {
        source: '/with-basePath', // automatically becomes /docs/with-basePath
        destination: '/another', // automatically becomes /docs/another
      },
      {
        // does not add /docs to /without-basePath since basePath: false is set
        // Note: this can not be used for internal rewrites e.g. `destination: '/another'`
        source: '/without-basePath',
        destination: 'https://example.com',
        basePath: false,
      },
    ]
  },
}
```

### Rewrites with i18n support

When leveraging [`i18n` support](/docs/advanced-features/i18n-routing.md) with rewrites each `source` and `destination` is automatically prefixed to handle the configured `locales` unless you add `locale: false` to the rewrite. If `locale: false` is used you must prefix the `source` and `destination` with a locale for it to be matched correctly.

```js
module.exports = {
  i18n: {
    locales: ['en', 'fr', 'de'],
    defaultLocale: 'en',
  },

  async rewrites() {
    return [
      {
        source: '/with-locale', // automatically handles all locales
        destination: '/another', // automatically passes the locale on
      },
      {
        // does not handle locales automatically since locale: false is set
        source: '/nl/with-locale-manual',
        destination: '/nl/another',
        locale: false,
      },
      {
        // this matches '/' since `en` is the defaultLocale
        source: '/en',
        destination: '/en/another',
        locale: false,
      },
      {
        // this gets converted to /(en|fr|de)/(.*) so will not match the top-level
        // `/` or `/fr` routes like /:path* would
        source: '/(.*)',
        destination: '/another',
      },
    ]
  },
}
```

Commit message:

docs: fix misleading documentation on redirects
The guides for `next.config.js` never specify that the `has: { }` syntax
is only available for v10.1, and not for v10.0. Add a note that
indicates these features are only available in the latest version.

docs/api-reference/next.config.js/rewrites.md, after:

---
description: Add rewrites to your Next.js app.
---

# Rewrites

> This feature was introduced in [Next.js 9.5](https://nextjs.org/blog/next-9-5) and up. If you’re using older versions of Next.js, please upgrade before trying it out.

<details open>
  <summary><b>Examples</b></summary>
  <ul>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/examples/rewrites">Rewrites</a></li>
  </ul>
</details>

Rewrites allow you to map an incoming request path to a different destination path.

Rewrites are only available on the Node.js environment and do not affect client-side routing.

To use rewrites you can use the `rewrites` key in `next.config.js`:

```js
module.exports = {
  async rewrites() {
    return [
      {
        source: '/about',
        destination: '/',
      },
    ]
  },
}
```

`rewrites` is an async function that expects an array to be returned holding objects with `source` and `destination` properties:

- `source`: `String` - is the incoming request path pattern.
- `destination`: `String` is the path you want to route to.
- `basePath`: `false` or `undefined` - if false the basePath won't be included when matching, can be used for external rewrites only.
- `locale`: `false` or `undefined` - whether the locale should not be included when matching.
- `has` is an array of [has objects](#header-cookie-and-query-matching) with the `type`, `key` and `value` properties.

Rewrites are applied after checking the filesystem (pages and `/public` files) and before dynamic routes by default. This behavior can be changed by instead returning an object instead of an array from the `rewrites` function since `v10.1` of Next.js:

```js
module.exports = {
  async rewrites() {
    return {
      beforeFiles: [
        // These rewrites are checked after headers/redirects
        // and before pages/public files which allows overriding
        // page files
        {
          source: '/some-page',
          destination: '/somewhere-else',
          has: [{ type: 'query', key: 'overrideMe' }],
        },
      ],
      afterFiles: [
        // These rewrites are checked after pages/public files
        // are checked but before dynamic routes
        {
          source: '/non-existent',
          destination: '/somewhere-else',
        },
      ],
      fallback: [
        // These rewrites are checked after both pages/public files
        // and dynamic routes are checked
        {
          source: '/:path*',
          destination: 'https://my-old-site.com',
        },
      ],
    }
  },
}
```

## Rewrite parameters

When using parameters in a rewrite the parameters will be passed in the query by default when none of the parameters are used in the `destination`.

```js
module.exports = {
  async rewrites() {
    return [
      {
        source: '/old-about/:path*',
        destination: '/about', // The :path parameter isn't used here so will be automatically passed in the query
      },
    ]
  },
}
```

If a parameter is used in the destination none of the parameters will be automatically passed in the query.

```js
module.exports = {
  async rewrites() {
    return [
      {
        source: '/docs/:path*',
        destination: '/:path*', // The :path parameter is used here so will not be automatically passed in the query
      },
    ]
  },
}
```

You can still pass the parameters manually in the query if one is already used in the destination by specifying the query in the `destination`.

```js
module.exports = {
  async rewrites() {
    return [
      {
        source: '/:first/:second',
        destination: '/:first?second=:second',
        // Since the :first parameter is used in the destination the :second parameter
        // will not automatically be added in the query although we can manually add it
        // as shown above
      },
    ]
  },
}
```

## Path Matching

Path matches are allowed, for example `/blog/:slug` will match `/blog/hello-world` (no nested paths):

```js
module.exports = {
  async rewrites() {
    return [
      {
        source: '/blog/:slug',
        destination: '/news/:slug', // Matched parameters can be used in the destination
      },
    ]
  },
}
```

### Wildcard Path Matching

To match a wildcard path you can use `*` after a parameter, for example `/blog/:slug*` will match `/blog/a/b/c/d/hello-world`:

```js
module.exports = {
  async rewrites() {
    return [
      {
        source: '/blog/:slug*',
        destination: '/news/:slug*', // Matched parameters can be used in the destination
      },
    ]
  },
}
```

### Regex Path Matching

To match a regex path you can wrap the regex in parenthesis after a parameter, for example `/blog/:slug(\\d{1,})` will match `/blog/123` but not `/blog/abc`:

```js
module.exports = {
  async rewrites() {
    return [
      {
        source: '/old-blog/:post(\\d{1,})',
        destination: '/blog/:post', // Matched parameters can be used in the destination
      },
    ]
  },
}
```

The following characters `(`, `)`, `{`, `}`, `:`, `*`, `+`, `?` are used for regex path matching, so when used in the `source` as non-special values they must be escaped by adding `\\` before them:

```js
module.exports = {
  async redirects() {
    return [
      {
        // this will match `/english(default)/something` being requested
        source: '/english\\(default\\)/:slug',
        destination: '/en-us/:slug',
        permanent: false,
      },
    ]
  },
}
```

## Header, Cookie, and Query Matching

**NOTE:** This feature is only available in Next v10.1 and above. It's still experimental, and not covered by semantic versioning. Use at your own risk until it is made stable.

To only match a rewrite when header, cookie, or query values also match the `has` field can be used. Both the `source` and all `has` items must match for the rewrite to be applied.

`has` items have the following fields:

- `type`: `String` - must be either `header`, `cookie`, `host`, or `query`.
- `key`: `String` - the key from the selected type to match against.
- `value`: `String` or `undefined` - the value to check for, if undefined any value will match. A regex like string can be used to capture a specific part of the value, e.g. if the value `first-(?<paramName>.*)` is used for `first-second` then `second` will be usable in the destination with `:paramName`.

```js
module.exports = {
  async rewrites() {
    return [
      // if the header `x-rewrite-me` is present,
      // this rewrite will be applied
      {
        source: '/:path*',
        has: [
          {
            type: 'header',
            key: 'x-rewrite-me',
          },
        ],
        destination: '/another-page',
      },
      // if the source, query, and cookie are matched,
      // this rewrite will be applied
      {
        source: '/specific/:path*',
        has: [
          {
            type: 'query',
            key: 'page',
            // the page value will not be available in the
            // destination since value is provided and doesn't
            // use a named capture group e.g. (?<page>home)
            value: 'home',
          },
          {
            type: 'cookie',
            key: 'authorized',
            value: 'true',
          },
        ],
        destination: '/:path*/home',
      },
      // if the header `x-authorized` is present and
      // contains a matching value, this rewrite will be applied
      {
        source: '/:path*',
        has: [
          {
            type: 'header',
            key: 'x-authorized',
            value: '(?<authorized>yes|true)',
          },
        ],
        destination: '/home?authorized=:authorized',
      },
      // if the host is `example.com`,
      // this rewrite will be applied
      {
        source: '/:path*',
        has: [
          {
            type: 'host',
            value: 'example.com',
          },
        ],
        destination: '/another-page',
      },
    ]
  },
}
```

## Rewriting to an external URL

<details>
  <summary><b>Examples</b></summary>
  <ul>
    <li><a href="https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/examples/custom-routes-proxying">Incremental adoption of Next.js</a></li>
  </ul>
</details>

Rewrites allow you to rewrite to an external url. This is especially useful for incrementally adopting Next.js.

```js
module.exports = {
  async rewrites() {
    return [
      {
        source: '/blog/:slug',
        destination: 'https://example.com/blog/:slug', // Matched parameters can be used in the destination
      },
    ]
  },
}
```

### Incremental adoption of Next.js

You can also have Next.js fall back to proxying to an existing website after checking all Next.js routes.

This way you don't have to change the rewrites configuration when migrating more pages to Next.js

```js
module.exports = {
  async rewrites() {
    return {
      fallback: [
        {
          source: '/:path*',
          destination: `https://custom-routes-proxying-endpoint.vercel.app/:path*`,
        },
      ],
    }
  },
}
```

See additional information on incremental adoption [in the docs here](https://nextjs.org/docs/migrating/incremental-adoption).

### Rewrites with basePath support

When leveraging [`basePath` support](/docs/api-reference/next.config.js/basepath.md) with rewrites each `source` and `destination` is automatically prefixed with the `basePath` unless you add `basePath: false` to the rewrite:

```js
module.exports = {
  basePath: '/docs',

  async rewrites() {
    return [
      {
        source: '/with-basePath', // automatically becomes /docs/with-basePath
        destination: '/another', // automatically becomes /docs/another
      },
      {
        // does not add /docs to /without-basePath since basePath: false is set
        // Note: this can not be used for internal rewrites e.g. `destination: '/another'`
        source: '/without-basePath',
        destination: 'https://example.com',
        basePath: false,
      },
    ]
  },
}
```

### Rewrites with i18n support

When leveraging [`i18n` support](/docs/advanced-features/i18n-routing.md) with rewrites each `source` and `destination` is automatically prefixed to handle the configured `locales` unless you add `locale: false` to the rewrite. If `locale: false` is used you must prefix the `source` and `destination` with a locale for it to be matched correctly.

```js
module.exports = {
  i18n: {
    locales: ['en', 'fr', 'de'],
    defaultLocale: 'en',
  },

  async rewrites() {
    return [
      {
        source: '/with-locale', // automatically handles all locales
        destination: '/another', // automatically passes the locale on
      },
      {
        // does not handle locales automatically since locale: false is set
        source: '/nl/with-locale-manual',
        destination: '/nl/another',
        locale: false,
      },
      {
        // this matches '/' since `en` is the defaultLocale
        source: '/en',
        destination: '/en/another',
        locale: false,
      },
      {
        // this gets converted to /(en|fr|de)/(.*) so will not match the top-level
        // `/` or `/fr` routes like /:path* would
        source: '/(.*)',
        destination: '/another',
      },
    ]
  },
}
```
